The second type of information we can get from a Class object
is about the content of a class itself.
First,
we are going to see how to get the fields of a class from this Class object.
In fact, there are many methods in the class named Class,
methods to get references on the fields,
to get references on the methods, on constructors,
and many more information.
We are not going to cover everything.
And first of all, we are going to see how to get the fields from a class.
Suppose we have a reference on a Person.class object.
There are three methods to get the fields of this Person.class object.
The first one takes the name of the field,
so clss.getField takes a string of characters that is the name of the field,
here, the age field, probably an int field.
It is a nice method,
but we need to know the Person class and how it is organized internally.
We need to know the name of its fields to use this method.
Suppose it is not the case.
Suppose we have loaded this class dynamically, and we do not even know its name.
We also have a getDeclaredFields method that returns an
array of some of the fields of this class,
and we will see the details in an a minute.
And we have a second method, getFields, that also returns an array of fields.
What is the difference between the declared fields and the fields from a class?
The declared fields are the fields declared within
that class whether they are private, protected,
package protected, or public.
The fields of a class are only the public fields,
including all the fields from the super classes of this Person class.
Let us see an example.
We have a class Person that does not declare any extensions,
so this Person class extends objects by default.
It has two private fields, age of type int and name of type String.
If we call clss.getFields on this Class object,
then what we get is an empty array.
Why?
Because getFields only returns the public fields of a class,
and the Person class doesn't have any.
It also returns the public field of all the super classes of the Person class,
but Person class extends object that do not declare any public field.
So this clss.getFields method call returns an empty array.
Now if we call getDeclaredFields, what we get is an array with two fields in it,
the age field and the name field.
Why?
Because the declared fields are the fields within the
Person class whether they are private, package protected,
protected, or public.
So just to recap this.
The non-declared elements of a class are the elements declared
in that class and all the super classes,
but only the public ones.
And we have declared fields and also declared methods as
we are going to see it in a minute.
The declared elements of a class, on the contrary,
are the elements declared within that class whether they are private,
protected, or package protected, or public,
and they are also declared methods, as well as declared fields. There are no inherited elements within the declared elements of a class.